# CEDEC Breath of the Wild Talks, World Design

*author: [Matt Walker](https://medium.com/@gypsyOtoko/this-is-a-reposting-of-my-twitter-thread-summarizing-articles-written-about-the-cedec-botw-dev-266c34fd30e8)*

*transcribed to markdown: [Fletcher Porter](http://fletcherporter.com)*

This is a reposting of my Twitter thread summarizing articles written about
the CEDEC BotW dev talks. You can find the original thread here:
<https://twitter.com/gypsyOtoko/status/915037635663425536>

![Hidemaro Fujibayashi](http://www.4gamer.net/games/341/G034168/20170901120/TN/003.jpg)

Got around to reading some of the BotW CEDEC articles (original article here:
<https://t.co/494TwAuYxi>). Interesting fact — They managed all of their tasks
by integrating their management tools with the game, so you wouldn’t get
people doing the same work twice.

![in-game sign posts](http://www.4gamer.net/games/341/G034168/20170901120/TN/048.jpg)

A task could be created by setting up a sign in the world, and then all related specs and meeting details related to it could be readily available by clicking on that sign.

![a sign post in Hyrule field](http://www.4gamer.net/games/341/G034168/20170901120/TN/049.jpg)

There’s also a “field task view” that was set up for higher level items.

![field task view](http://www.4gamer.net/games/341/G034168/20170901120/TN/051.jpg)

![field task view, full map](http://www.4gamer.net/games/341/G034168/20170901120/TN/052.jpg)

It was apparently a great way for multiple devs to bounce ideas off of each
other in regards to the task.

From a field design standpoint they discuss the "Triangle Rule". They explain
that using triangles carries out 2 objectives-gives players a choice as to
whether to go straight over the triangle, or around, and it obscures the
player’s view, so designers can utilize them to surprise players, make them
wonder what they’ll find on the other side.

![triangle rule](http://www.4gamer.net/games/341/G034168/20170901120/TN/020.jpg)

There’s also variations that can be more visually interesting, to perk the
player’s interest. Korok seeds are usually found in these instances.

![variation on the triangle rule](http://www.4gamer.net/games/341/G034168/20170901120/TN/023.jpg)

![another variation on the triangle rule](http://www.4gamer.net/games/341/G034168/20170901120/TN/021.jpg)

They have 3 different scales that they utilize this principle with as shown
here-all to achieve different objectives.

![three scales of triangle rule](http://www.4gamer.net/games/341/G034168/20170901120/TN/024.jpg)

The slide notes that each different size [sic] plays a different role: the
largest are landmarks that serve as visual markers, the medium sized triangles
serve to obstruct the player’s view-whatever is behind them and the smallest
triangles serve the tempo-be it to change whatever buttons the player is
pressing or for more concrete play.

They also used rectangles as shown here. Instead of gradually revealing
something, rects are good for completely hiding something from sight.

![rectangle tree trunk](http://www.4gamer.net/games/341/G034168/20170901120/TN/025.jpg)

![rectangle trees](http://www.4gamer.net/games/341/G034168/20170901120/TN/026.jpg)

You can get an idea for just how widely this concept was applied in this image.

![many triangles and rectangles](http://www.4gamer.net/games/341/G034168/20170901120/TN/028.jpg)

They give an example of how the design was applied in action in these images.
Note how the structure in the distance is slowly revealed.

![tower revealed thanks to triangles 1](http://www.4gamer.net/games/341/G034168/20170901120/TN/031.jpg)

![tower revealed thanks to triangles 2](http://www.4gamer.net/games/341/G034168/20170901120/TN/032.jpg)

Finally, the structure hides the tower in the back, so there’s this chain of
interest — hill -> bridge structure -> tower.

![hill](http://www.4gamer.net/games/341/G034168/20170901120/TN/033.jpg)

![bridge structure](http://www.4gamer.net/games/341/G034168/20170901120/TN/034.jpg)

![tower](http://www.4gamer.net/games/341/G034168/20170901120/TN/035.jpg)

The beginning of the presentation discusses what specific changes they made in
order to make the game more enjoyable. The first map images show 2 heat maps —
showing what paths players originally traversed in playthroughs, and then the
second map showing how much more well distributed that became after they made
this specific change.

![heatmap before and after change](http://www.4gamer.net/games/341/G034168/20170901120/TN/005.jpg)

Their initial assumption was that they could spread the towers throughout the
map, and place game events in between, but they found that approach didn’t
feel appealing to players.

![tasks between towers isn't appealing to players](http://www.4gamer.net/games/341/G034168/20170901120/TN/007.jpg)

Players felt they were being guided, that the game was too linear, and people
were having completely different experiences, in a bad way.

![slide sharing that the game was too linear](http://www.4gamer.net/games/341/G034168/20170901120/TN/009.jpg)

They realized they could solve these problems with the concept they called
“gravity”- placing structures of varying visibility/importance in different
places, leading players in different directions and allowing to get
sidetracked.

![different structure could pull a player's attention off the main path](http://www.4gamer.net/games/341/G034168/20170901120/TN/014.jpg)

This became a catalyst for “infinite play” — going back and forth between
different structures.

![infinite play in front of the Akala fairy fountain](http://www.4gamer.net/games/341/G034168/20170901120/TN/015.jpg)

You can see in this image how the different structures rank in visibility —
naturally drawing player’s attention, and in “objective”.

![ranking of structure visibility, with mountains at greatest, followed by towers, weather?, stables, enemy encampments, shrines, villages?, and item pickups](http://www.4gamer.net/games/341/G034168/20170901120/TN/016.jpg)

![gravity of structures, with shrines at greatest, followed by enemy encampments, stables, towers, item pickups, weather?, villages?, and mountain](http://www.4gamer.net/games/341/G034168/20170901120/TN/017.jpg)

The objective order changes depending on how the player likes to play-if
they’re aggressive, they’ll go after enemy camps to get better gear.

FYI — I found all these summaries here: https://t.co/8BF0pmwp4E. The Japanese
internet notes that devs were in awe, stating things like “only NCL knows how
to really make games”

From IGN Japan on debugging: https://t.co/iHiMeYWv9r. One guy foresaw that the
game would be too complex to leave debugging till the end, so he had the
foresight to champion for new practices — proactively fix bugs blocking
programmers and bugs specifically requested for fixing. Also to implement a
tool for easy bug reports, merging the tools for managing bugs with tasks, and
implementing a system in the game for bug finding called #ZELDA_ERROR.
